In these lecture we studied about servers.A server is a computer or software system that provides services, resources, or data to other computers, called clients, over a network. It receives and responds to client requests, such as delivering web pages, storing files, managing emails, or running applications. Servers can be physical machines or virtual systems and are typically powerful and always online to handle multiple requests. Common types include web servers, database servers, file servers, and mail servers. For example, when you visit a website, your browser (the client) requests data from a web server, which then sends the webpage content back to be displayed.
Client-server architecture:- So a client is basically someone who requests things from servers and server can contain anything like images code etc. A client request to a server via connection called sockets , the data given to the client via server via socket is due to the TCP/IP protocol.TCP/IP are a set of rules.
When a server makes a connection with the client there are certain protocols in which the server will send there response in called http,smtp,ftp etc.Here if you want to send html,json data,simple text to the client you use the http(hyper text transfer protocol) for it.The client make an http requests and the server listens for such requests.
The data that comes from server comes in small chunks called packets. So when we make a request to a domain in the browser it get maps to the ip of the server at that domain via a DNS server or a domain name server.
There can be small internal servers inside a server it can have small http, ftp servers now to access an particular http server inside a server we use port at the end of the ip adress (126.21.23.2:3000) here 3000 is the port which takes us to a particular http server.A server can also talks to another server.
Web sockets is a type of socket which is opened for a long time without automatically closing it for a two way communication b/w client and server.
In the server.js file we created a simple server from the http module of node but we will note use this in future as it is not reliable instead we will use the library of node called express.